
# Audio

## Audio buffers {#audio-buffers}

An audio buffer is a block of memory that stores an uncompressed
audio sample.

An audio buffer may have any number of channels, although Amulet
will currently only play up to two channels.

An audio buffer also has a sample rate. Amulet currently plays all
audio at a sample rate 44.1kHz and will resample an audio buffer
if it has a different sample rate (this requires extra processing).

The audio data itself is stored in a raw [buffer](#buffers-and-views)
as a series of single precision floats (4 bytes each). The samples for
each channel are contiguous. The first channel's data comes first, then
the second channel's data, etc (the channels are not interleaved).

If the sample data is stored in the buffer `buf`, and there are two channels,
then the following code will create [views](#buffers-and-views) that can
be used to update or read the samples for each channel:

~~~ {.lua}
local c = 2 -- channels
local s = #buf / 4 / c -- samples per channel
local left_channel = buf:view("float", 0, 4, s)
local right_channel = buf:view("float", s * 4, 4, s)
~~~

### am.audio_buffer(buffer, channels, sample_rate) {#am.audio_buffer .func-def}

Returns a new audio buffer using the given raw buffer (a buffer
created with [`am.buffer`](#am.buffer)). The audio data should
be layed out as described [above](#audio-buffers).

`channels` is the number of channels and `sample_rate` is the sample rate
in Hz.

### am.load_audio(filename) {#am.load_audio .func-def}

Loads the given audio file and returns a new audio buffer.
The file must be a `.ogg` audio file.
Returns `nil` if the file was not found.

## Audio buffer fields

### audio_buffer.channels {#audio_buffer.channels .field-def}

The number of channels. Readonly.

### audio_buffer.sample_rate {#audio_buffer.sample_rate .field-def}

The sample rate in Hz. Readonly.

### audio_buffer.samples_per_channel {#audio_buffer.samples_per_channel .field-def}

The number of samples per channel. Readonly.

### audio_buffer.length {#audio_buffer.length .field-def}

The length of the audio in seconds. Readonly.

### audio_buffer.buffer {#audio_buffer.buffer .field-def}

The underlying raw [buffer](#buffers-and-views) where the audio data is stored. Readonly.

## Audio tracks {#audio-tracks}

An audio track contains the playback state of an audio buffer - that is
the current position and speed of playback. The same audio buffer can
be used with multiple audio tracks.

Note that you normally don't need to explicitly create tracks
to play audio, unless you want to change the speed and position
during playback.

### am.track(buffer [, loop [, playback_speed [, volume]]]) {#am.track .func-def}

Creates a new track with the given buffer, loop setting (`true`/`false`),
playback_speed and volume. This doesn't cause the track to start playing, use
[`am.play`](#am.play) for that.

## Audio track fields

### track.playback_speed {#track.playback_speed .field-def}

Playback speed as a multiplier of the normal speed (e.g. 0.5 means half
speed and 2 means double speed). Updatable.

### track.volume {#track.volume .field-def}

Playback volume (1 is normal volume). Updatable.

## Audio track methods

### track:reset([position]) {#track:reset .method-def}

Sets playback to the given position, measured in seconds.
If the argument is omitted, playback is reset to the start.

## Playing audio

### am.play(source, loop, pitch, volume) {#am.play .func-def}

Returns an action that plays audio.
Like any other [action](#node:action) it needs to be attached to a scene
node that's connected to a window to run.

`source` can either be an [audio track](#audio-tracks), an [audio buffer](#audio-buffers), the name of a ".ogg" file
or a seed generated by the sfxr tool (there's an online
version of that tool in the examples list of the [online editor](http://www.amulet.xyz/editor.html)).

`loop` can be `true` or `false`.

`pitch` is a multiplier applied to the playback speed.
1.0 mean play at the original speed. 2.0 means play
twice as fast and 0.5 means play at half the original speed.

`volume` should be between 0 and 1.

**Note**:
When the source is an sfxr seed or a filename, an [audio buffer](#audio-buffers)
is generated behind the scenes and cached. Therefore there might be a short delay the
first time this function is called with a given seed or filename (though for short
audio clips this will probably not be noticeable). Also avoid calling
this function many times with different seeds or filenames, because that will cause 
unbounded memory growth.

**Note**:
When playing audio in a web browser via HTML export, most browsers will not play
any sounds until the user interacts with the page in some way. This is an effort by
browser creators to suppress annoying auto-play advertisements. Amulet attempts to
detect this and begins playing sound after the first click or key press.

## Generating sound effects

### am.sfxr_synth(settings) {#am.sfxr_synth .func-def}

Returns an audio buffer containing a generated sound effect.

`settings` can either be a table containing any number of the
following fields:

Field                Default value     Notes
-----------------    ----------------  -------------------------------------------------
`wave_type     `     `"square"`        Can also be `"sawtooth"`, `"sine"` or `"noise"`
`base_freq     `     `0.3`
`freq_limit    `     `0.0`
`freq_ramp     `     `0.0`
`freq_dramp    `     `0.0`
`duty          `     `0.0`
`duty_ramp     `     `0.0`
`vib_strength  `     `0.0`
`vib_speed     `     `0.0`
`vib_delay     `     `0.0`
`env_attack    `     `0.0`
`env_sustain   `     `0.3`
`env_decay     `     `0.4`
`env_punch     `     `0.0`
`filter_on     `     `false`
`lpf_resonance `     `0.0`
`lpf_freq      `     `1.0`
`lpf_ramp      `     `0.0`
`hpf_freq      `     `0.0`
`hpf_ramp      `     `0.0`
`pha_offset    `     `0.0`
`pha_ramp      `     `0.0`
`repeat_speed  `     `0.0`
`arp_speed     `     `0.0`
`arp_mod       `     `0.0`

or a numeric seed. Use the sfxr example
in the [online editor](http://www.amulet.xyz/editor.html) to generate seeds.

## Audio graphs

TODO

(Amulet has support for building graphs of audio effect nodes,
however it is currently undocumented because the API is unstable).

## Audio graph nodes

TODO

## Analysing audio

TODO

